it's easy to get caught up in the
Samsung new cycle this time of year but
this the newly announced OnePlus 12 I
think deserves just as much attention
I'm going to say something a little
crazy here but I think that this phone
in mid January 2024 already has a very
good chance to become top three
smartphones of the entire year let me
explain first of all I mean it comes
with a proper box I mean it is mostly a
waste of space since this entire insert
on top is just filled with booklet after
booklet like with still in 2002 but then
underneath the phone there is not just a
USBC cable but also a top-of-the-line
100 W charging brake which does sweeten
the deal oh and the phone also comes
with a pre-applied screen protector
which is not an assumed thing anymore
and as we go through this phone I just
want you to keep in the back of your
mind the price because even though I
will be comparing it to phones like the
Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra the iPhone 15
Pro Max unlike those phones which are
$1,200 plus this is
$799 and for that it doesn't just pass
it absolutely Nails the six core pillars
of a great smartphone design battery
screen software speed and camera but
that one comes with a catch so this is
what the phone looks like and to be
honest I love how confidently they've
designed it you've got this chrome rail
on the sides which then melts into the
back you got a matte marble texture
which feels a bit plasticky but looks
Ultra Premium and then a separate glossy
marble on the cameras which is even
paired with a smattering of glitter this
thing has the character of one of those
insane Collector's Edition phones we'd
unbox in the rarest phones videos but
it's not one plus like past OnePlus
phones it's nicely curved it's rounded
it's comfortable and it's got an alert
slider on top which I can see the appeal
of as a way to shut your phone up while
it's in your pocket but I don't think
I'd ever use it while the phone's in my
hand since there's no way that like
this yeah there you go it's easier than
actually just tapping a virtual button
on screen however the phone does
actually fix a separate problem that I
have been having you must have tried at
some point using a touchcreen when
either your screen or your fingers are
wet right and noticed how even a single
drop of water is enough for your phone
to think there's another finger on
screen and all hell to break loose well
the OnePlus 12 has aquatouch which is a
customized display chipset that pays
very close attention and can
differentiate between the two now it
still can cause the occasional screen
spasm like that this is not your new
diving companion and sometimes the
fingerprint scanner doesn't work when
the phone's wet but it is 90% there to
just being able to ignore that water
which as someone who catches up with the
latest news in the world with Pokémon
while having a shower feels so
freeing uh
it's like finally after 10 years
actually getting the full benefit from
our phones being water
resistant thanks Milo the only thing
that stops this design being absolute
top tier for me is that the phone is not
the prettiest from the front the top
corners look a bit like ears because of
the way the screen curves away on the
sides and you've also got that classic
oversized bottom bezel which frustrates
me a little more each year as more of
more of the competition start to do away
with it but now is where the phone
starts to really separate itself with
pill and number two battery it feels
like battery life is one of those things
that almost every manufacturer is just
scared to give you too much of they'll
happily give us two times the screen
resolution or five times the camera
resolution we need but not battery maybe
companies are worried that you won't
keep upgrading if your battery stays
good or because God forbid they might
have to make the design 0.1 mm thicker
to accommodate it regardless the OnePlus
12 is one of the few standouts and I
rate it for that it comes with a 5,400
mAh battery they've gone from zero
wireless charging capability to now
supporting extremely high power 50 W
wireless charging which can fully charge
that massive battery in less than an
hour although it does require a specific
OnePlus charging stand to get that speed
so I'll probably just stick to my
standard CH charger it's got reverse
wireless charging to top up your friends
phones but then also also you know that
100 watt charging Breck that we got in
the box that can take your phone from 0
to 100 in 26 minutes so compared to
current iPhones or even the new Samsungs
the battery experience here is a tier
above all completed by one very
important final extra layer battery
health realizing that this is very fast
charging and such a powerful phone with
the potential to generate lots of heat
the company has also built in a separate
power management chip which effectively
decides at any given point in time using
the data from 14 temperature sensors
around the phone plus one in the
charging brick too actually exactly what
speed to charge at to ensure that your
battery stays at the optimal temperature
to both receive charge quickly but also
not get so hot that it's going to damage
the battery now every battery Los loses
capacity over time but OnePlus is saying
that this mechanism combined with some
very cool software trickery which I'm
getting to all pulls together to make
the battery deterioration the slowest
here that it's ever been meaning that
even after 4 years of daily use they're
saying this phone will still perform
like a brand new phone with a 4350 Mah
capacity so will still easily last a
full day which is absolutely insane if
true so yeah I mean if you want to see
an update video in 4 years time then a
sub to the channel would be Everlasting
but seriously while it's hard to
obviously test them on Earth and they're
definitely giving a best case scenario
there is definitely reason to believe
that OnePlus knows how to optimize
battery efficiently I mean this thing
especially after a couple of weeks as it
learns your patterns is the best battery
life of any phone I've ever had my Sim
in with really minimal standby drain you
can leave this phone overnight and
literally pick it up where you left off
the next morning and then you turn the
thing on and you're greeted with pillar
three the screen this phone alone breaks
like 18 different smartphone display
records wongo it's a 120 HZ QHD plus
resolution panel with more importantly a
new pixel structure cuz you can have
lots of pixels but it's also about how
those pixels are arranged and this blue
diamond layout is optimized for better
contrast and readability are you going
to be able to tell probably not I mean I
put it side by side with other phones
using different layouts and NADA but to
be fair this Arrangement also improves
the longevity of the screen versus a lot
of others it's got ltpo 3.0 which is the
newest Tech that lets phones scale their
refresh rates even more precisely to
match exactly what you're doing it's all
about wasting as little energy as
possible but then you want to know the
craziest bit guess the max brightness of
this phone in nits if you've been
following phones over the last few
months you might have seen a couple
capable of over 2,000 nits for the first
time ever well the 1plus 12 can go to
4,500 4,500 is an absolutely Bonkers
number like I've never seen anything
even remotely close to that in my life
TV no monitor nothing it's so bright
that to be honest it's going to have
absolutely no bearing on your day-to-day
use of the phone and you'll only ever
reach it while watching specifically
High dynamic range content while
Outdoors but you know if you end up in
the scorching Sun of the Sahara desert
with nothing but your one plus 12 and a
pre-downloaded Mr who the boss video
well hey you're going to get the full
experience oh but there's another side
to it too and I appreciate this probably
more that as you go dimmer on the
phone's display as you dip below the 70
nit Mark the phone is going to switch
over over to 2160 HZ pwm
dimming what on Earth am I talking about
well okay quick lesson old phones used
to have LCD displays which is
essentially a white backlight that
shines onto colored pixels and the way
that you change the brightness of that
LCD is just by reducing the power given
to that backlight but then we started
getting these fancy OLED displays which
are way richer and more Vivid because
every single Pixel is its own individual
LED but the problem then is that if you
try to dim an OLED in the same way as
used to dim your LCD by just reducing
the power you give to the display then
because each pixel is responsible for
color as well as brightness you also
damage the color reproduction at lower
power levels Like Your Greens might
start to look like Grays so many phones
now use something called pwm dimming
which means that when your phone screen
is on what's actually happening is that
that screen is flashing on and off very
quickly faster than your eyes can see it
and then as you lower the brightness
your pixels aren't actually getting
dimmer but just the gaps between the off
and on States just getting wider your
phone is spending more time in the off
State and so appears to be dimmer cool
so problem solved right well not really
cuz most Samsung and apples they do this
refreshing either 240 times per second
or 480 times per second which while fast
is not fast enough that your brain
doesn't subconsciously pick up on some
of this rapid onof flashing so it can
lead to headaches and strain especially
at night just before bed so OnePlus has
decided to use both DC dimming at higher
brightness levels where you're not at
risk of ruining your colors and then
when brightness gets lower pwm dimming
but at 2160 times per second best of
both worlds and combined with a filter
that reduces blue light on a hardware
level this is a screen that is both
visually exceptional and also very eye
friendly and fun fact is also easier for
us to film because it's not constantly
flickering as the brightness gets low
plus the display is protected by Gorilla
Glass Victors 2 which while not the
absolute latest and strongest glass from
the company is more than strong enough
to theoretically survive a pocket height
drop without a case please don't try it
then you've got number four the software
this phone and it's oxygen OS 14 is an
absolute Delight to use and I do have a
couple of gripes with it but they're all
just small aesthetic things like for one
who decided that square icons were the
way to go and why in the settings do I
have every other option apart from
circles like how do you actually manage
to get Squires octagons and rhombuses
but not a circle I have no idea and just
generally I don't think ever since
OnePlus merged with Oppo the software
has looked as good as it used to like
the icons yes but also the menus the app
draw it feels more like an Oppo phone
than it does a OnePlus phone look at
this notification the fact that the name
of the group is cut off to the
completely unnecessary arrow and the
icon that's covering some of the message
it just it could be better thankfully
these complaints are only skin deep
because as soon as you delve a little
deeper I got to hand it to them the
software on this OnePlus 12 is one of
the most thoughtful useful Android skin
I've been on in ways that have actually
made my life better like let's say you
want to do a screen recording you can
now actually add your front camera
footage to that feed of course when
you're using the phone with one hand
instead of having to enter what can be
quite a clumsy one-handed mode you just
swipe up and every icon on the page
comes to you this has become my default
way to navigate now and quick launch
which means straight from the
fingerprint scanner if you carry on
holding down you can go right into any
app you want leap frogging you past any
potential distractions on on the way so
I've set mine up to do all the key work
things that I tend to use often plus it
can even do actions like start a new
Google doc and the software is just
intelligent it does a lot of clever
things that you don't think about but
the fact that you don't think about them
means that it's doing its job like for
example it'll reduce your notification
volume and your vibration intensity when
you're full screen in an app because it
knows that when you're full screen
you're looking at your screen anyway so
you don't need to be blasted and you
probably also don't want to be blasted
when you lift your phone up to your ears
it'll automatically answer an income
call and it will also switch you from
speaker phone into your earpiece and
fluid Cloud which is basically another
Dynamic Island clone but hey it lets you
keep up with what's happening in a way
that saves space on screen still a good
feature I just wish it worked for more
apps it seems to be quite specific right
now but the phone does all of this while
also making sure that any apps you've
downloaded are not misbehaving like I've
had a couple of notifications come up
telling me that say Instagram is
draining too much battery in the
background and with one tap the phone
will just start clamping down on from
now on still letting them function if
they need to do something in the
background but just not letting them
take the Mickey with it it's quite
satisfying it's just disciplining them
on your behalf and like every single
option with regards to customizing the
way your phone looks or functions
OnePlus just hands it to you no extra
apps needed even granular control over
things like your status bar and your
fingerprint scanning animations my
entire first day with this phone I was
just navigating settings there's that
much to do there's a couple of cool but
probably unnecessary features like this
shelf which OnePlus encourages you to
set as your swipe down option instead of
your notification bar but yeah I mean
they're more background status things
that you check way less often so I never
felt like I needed instant access to
them and the other is anti- peeping
notifications which when you set it up
uses your front camera to see if someone
else aside from you is also looking at
your phone and if they are it continues
to send you your notifications but just
in a less revealing way very cool idea
but I don't think it's something I'm
going to use I mean naturally that's
going to drain a bit of battery and I
feel like it only requires a very basic
level of awareness to know when
someone's staring at your screen but the
big new thing that complement this whole
software experience is basically the
biggest vibration motor that OnePlus has
ever used which means your phone can
really pump out the haptics so that
typing the registering your fingerprint
for the first time deleting a photo the
phone feels like it talks back to you in
a way you really feel the O maybe I
shouldn't deleted it oh and I haven't
even talked about the best beted of this
software the sheer speed of it and
that's pillar five so the OnePlus 12 is
powered by the Snapdragon 8 gen 3 chip
which is good I mean it's very powerful
chip but also it's a 2024 flagship phone
I'm not surprised by this fact the thing
that I'm actually most excited about is
all the stuff that the company's done
around that and I'm not even talking
about the minimum of 256 gigs of ultra
fast storage they give you or 12 GB of
ultra fast Ram see what makes a phone
really fast is part hardware but also
part software think of it like your
phone is a whole bunch of layers and
every time you ask it to do something
many of those different layers have to
communicate with each other to deliver
an output like let's say you plug your
phone into charge the first thing that
realizes it's being charged is the
hardware that Hardware communicates with
the Linux layer which is the Baseline of
Android that Linux layer communicates
with the Android layer and that Android
layer communicates with the app layer to
stimulate a response that you can see
like that little lightning symbol
becoming visible you know people say
that Apple's key Advantage is that they
build both the software and the hardware
together well the reason that's so
advantageous is that it means they can
create really clear efficient
communication between these layers
that's why iPhones have been very smooth
even when they weren't powerful and why
they get far more battery life for each
milliamp of physical battery that they
have versus other phones and so OnePlus
is trying to do the same thing and
they're calling it The Trinity engine
instead of just focusing on making the
very top layer work and assuming the
rest is fixed they're working across all
layers to create software that better
understands the exact needs of the
hardware and vice versa allowing the
different parts of the phone to work
smarter around each other so that your
CPU is only ever exerting exactly the
amount of power that it needs to that
your RAM actually understands which apps
to keep pre-loaded and ready for quick
use at all times and which to close as
soon as you exit them so assuming you
use your camera a lot for example it'll
open rapidly and that your phone's
memory can defragment itself to counter
the inevitable performance loss that
happens in the long term there's a lot
of jargon and marketing fluff going
around with all of this but the
important thing and what I can say for
sure is that this is the fastest Android
experience I've ever had and I've called
plenty of phones fast before but this is
fast in a way that makes it feel like
it's not even trying like one thing that
it doesn't seem to matter how powerful
Androids of Goden has always lagged is
flicking around the Google Play Store
not here everything is so fast at
loading and the animation so fluid and
unbroken that at times you almost forget
that you're actually going between
separate applications and your entire
phone usage just starts to blend into
one seamless buttery smooth experience
and then for gaming it goes one step
further well actually about five this
phone has a secondary co-processor
called the pixel Works X7 that works
alongside its main chip to do more like
improved hyper rendering that without
any input from A Game's developer can
increase the resolution that the game
runs at add frames into the game to make
it run smoother and also extend the
game's natural dynamic range and put all
those things together it's actually
crazy to see it in action you can pick
up a 10-year-old old Android game and
the phone makes it feel like it was made
yesterday and then on the other end of
the spectrum when you find a game that
already looks good you can see it both
taking the visuals to another level
while also making absolute mince meat of
it hyper rendering plus adaptive frame
booster equals happy gaming time this
phone can actually run any game at 120
frames per second even if not originally
designed to that is awesome but there's
more there's hyper boost which is your
phone not just detecting that a game is
being played and telling your CPU and
GPU you to go forth and power through
but the Android layer specifically
understanding what the exact needs of
the game are in that given moment and
communicating that very clearly to your
chip which can mean that in a less
demanding moment your chip can dial back
relax and cool down for a second only
for when the action picks up again for
your temperatures to be cool enough that
your chip has the head room to actually
just go for it and it's all assisted by
probably the most advanced calling
system to ever exist on a phone outside
of those specialist gaming phones it's
got the largest VAP chamber in the
industry which is essentially a metal
canister containing a liquid which as
the phone heats up turns to gas cools
down again and condenses plus it's got
Aerospace grade thermal performance gel
to Aid heat conduction further and in
total here's the shocking stat to me no
less than
38,000 mm squar of heat dissipation area
spread across five layers on both the
front and the back side of the phone to
be very clear 38,000 mm squared
considering what the size of the phone
actually is is absolutely insane and the
benefit of these dissipation layers
being both on the back and the front of
the phone allows it to get rid of heat
in two directions at the same time
compared to most phones which just have
one outlet and then the final cherry on
top for this whole speed experience is
Wi-Fi 7 Bluetooth 5.4 and then just the
fact that the phone has 360° antennas
for 5G and Wi-Fi meaning that you won't
have a signal Interruption if you say
flick your phone horizontally to game
now before we bring this all together we
need to talk about the most contentious
pillar the cameras and I say contentious
because OnePlus doesn't have the best
camera reputation and in a way when I
use this phone I can see why like the
starters the front camera is just
mediocre and I don't mean mediocre
because it does lots of face smoothing
to make you look nice it's also just
washed out like it can make you look
weirdly pasty and sometimes even
Overexposed indoors when it's not even
that bright and then look how much the
photo changes after you take it I mean
in a way it's impressive cuz there so
much processing happening but because
the OnePlus is doing such little of this
processing in real time as you're
shooting the stuff the shooting
experience itself feels really
unpolished and the photos don't look
good until you've taken them which is
part of the reason why I find myself
taking like three shots of every single
scene just because I don't completely
trust that I've got a shot that looks
good and it's not just that because
there's not much real-time processing
happening video suffers do you see how
while the iPhone in this case looks like
it genuinely understands the scene and
my face the one plus very much looks
like it's just taking it as it comes
like the exposure of the entire scene
shifts completely as the light around me
changes you'll notice the electronic
image stabilization goes for this Ultra
smooth Outlook which can be awesome when
there's lots of light but without it the
phone continues to try and recreate that
but without the light information to be
able to do so so you just get tons of
weird artifacts and blur oh and finally
the focusing can sometimes also let you
down you might know that Samsung for
example they use a laser to get exact
Focus distance OnePlus doesn't really
have that and while you probably won't
notice if you're coming from another
phone without it I can feel its absence
so there are things that could do with
fixing and what kind of annoys me about
recent OnePlus is that it feels like
instead of actually fixing them the
company instead just tries to lean more
heavily into their partnership with
Hasselblad as if that's somehow going to
make it better I mean this is what a
Hasselblad camera looks like
realistically how much is that company
going to be able to help you with your
phone they're very different things okay
I realize I'm absolutely dunking on this
but it's because I care it's because
these are issues that I keep seeing on
OnePlus phones and if they could just
focus on them their phones could
Skyrocket in value without costing
anyone anything and also because aside
from these niggles this is actually a
really good camera system the hardware
is a pretty big upgrade over the cameras
on the OnePlus 11 in every sense it's
actually very similar Hardware to the
cameras on the more recent OnePlus open
similar main camera sensor same 48 map
Ultra wide same 64 map three times
telephoto lens plus a coating that's
applied to the main lens that reduces
glare and apparently further increases
Clarity and that is interesting because
while I wouldn't say that I was blown
away by the open camera setup that was a
different set of circumstances before I
tested the open OnePlus was hyping it up
as literally the best set of cameras on
a phone ever and also the phone was
$1,700 so you know my expectations were
here but the OnePlus 12 is a phone
that's not just good but actually also
aming amazing in every other area and
that cost
$799 which is less than half well that
same camera quality here that hits very
different it captures quickly it gets
tons of natural background blur thanks
to a wide aperture and it's pretty color
consistent too there's actually a color
temperature sensor hidden in here too
which when you take a photo collects 13
channels of color info to refine the
endot with and it's like 98% perfect but
every now and again the skin tone will
just look well hassle bad
you get an overall natural looking shot
but with an ever so slightly cooler tone
and an Ever So slight extra pop of color
I really love the way it shoots to be
honest it makes me feel like an artist
especially with this 64 megap three time
zoom lens I kind of fallen in love with
this lens it's great for people it's
great for flowers it's such a naturally
pretty lens especially with oneplus's
color tuning that you can just take
photos of even the most boring things
looking their absolute worst and it
still somehow looks professional I guess
the point is cameras aren't the
specialty of this phone and if you're
someone who's picking a phone half for
the cameras then it's worth spending
more for a Vivo or a Samsung or an
iPhone but at the same time they're not
bad I wouldn't say this is like a tier
below the base level Galaxy s24 which is
like the same price and it's definitely
not outright worse than an Asus Zen
phone that you might get for the same
price so if it wasn't clear I think the
OnePlus 12 is a kill a phone there isn't
much in the way of cool AI summarization
features like you get with Samsung or
hyper intelligent cameras like you get
with Google but in terms of the cold
hard fundamentals this thing pretty much
Nails every single one but if you do
want to see what paying more for a phone
gets you then here's my video on the s24
ultra I'll catch you there